
There's something about the internet as a place that wears on me for some reason. Is it the continual insistence of wanting to make the internet more like a library or a garden, only to create more or less the same hyperlinked pages that I scroll down every day? Is it that the act of using a computer doesn't illict a similar experience of place like exploring a library and tending a garden?

Or is it cynicism? Probably. You can never get enough of the stuff.

Whatever the source of this irritation, I'd like to poke into its depths, see where it leads. Part of this has come from a reevaluation of my own relationship to the medium of the web. Is it a place for me? That sat funny. There had to be a better explanation. Then something hit me when I read a passage from David Graeber & David Wengrow's _The Dawn of Everything: A New History of Humanity_:

>When we are capable of self-awareness, it's usually for very brief periods of time: the 'windows of consciousness', during which we can hold a thought or work out a problem, tends to be oen on average for roughly seven seconds. What neuroscientists (and it must be said, most contemporary philosophers) almost never notice, however, is that the great exception to this is when we're talking to someone else. In coversation, we can hold thoughts and reflect on problems sometimes for hours on end. This is of course why so often, even if we're trying to figure something out by ourselves, we imagine arguing with or explaining it to someone else. Human thought is inherntly dialogic. Ancient philosophers tended to be keenly aware of all this: that's why, whether they were in China, India or Greece, they tended to write their books in the form of dialogues. Humans were only fully self-conscious when arguing with one another, trying to sway each other's views, or working out a common problem. 

Whenever I've had great experiences on the web, there was always a conversation; whether I was replying to a person on a forum or bouncing off an idea from a blog post I read. It's in these exchanges where the windows of consciousness open long enough to let the breeze in, to get the crosswind of shared humanity humming therein. The web at its best feeds on the dialogic nature of human thought.  

where Gal Beckerman's _The Quiet Before_:. 


>
